+++
title = "Hercule Poirot's Machine for Pigs"
date = "2022-01-19"
+++

![Hercule Poirot's Machine for Pigs](./hpmfp.png)

# Character List

## Investigators

**Agatha Crane**, academic & paranormal investigator

**Wilbur Crane**, her husband

**Hercule Poirot**, famous detective

**Mrs Lemon**, his secretary

**Inspector Japp**, policeman

## Cavendish household

**Stjohn Cavendish**, financier & industrialist

**Miriam Cavendish**, his wife, deceased.

**Geoffrey 'Jeffers' Butler**, manservant

**Gertrude White**, housekeeper

**Stjohn Cavendish Jnr**, a Tory MP

**Anne Cavendish**, his wife

**Reginald Cavendish**, a gambler

**Emily Cavendish**, an adventurer

**Barry Lovegood**, her partner, a magician

## Cavendish Works

**Recalcitrance Emmett**, an engineer

# Background

## Timeline

- **1500BC**, A cannibal cult of pig-worshippers construct an underground
temple complex near Cairo, Egypt. For 1000 years their activities
feed the Entity. The cult is suppressed by various powers, from
the Ptolemies to the Romans, though it persists.

-   > 646, Cult all but eradicated during Islamic conquest when Egypt is
    > wrested from the Romans (Byzantine or Eastern Roman Empire.)

-   > 1842, Mineworkers exposed to the Dudley Barrow Tablet, infected by
    > the Hunger.

-   > 1886, Recalcitrance Emmett born into the afflicted community

-   1924, Miriam returned from expedition

-   1925, Emmett Works Co. contracted to build the Cavendish Works.

-   1926, Miriam discovers translation tablet, publishes paper on the
    > subject

-   1926, Miriam receives anonymous letters warning her not to publish
    > further and to desists from her work.

-   1927, Cavendish Works completed

-   1927, Miriam succumbs to the Hunger and is hanged - or so it
    > seems...

-   1927, Cavendish Works opens

## Beneath the City of the Dead

-   Pigs actually a substitute for cannibalism, and their sacrifice
    > intended to ward off an entity that possesses the minds of its
    > victims and hungers for human flesh

-   Cult suppressed following the Islamic conquest in 646AD and their
    > tunnels were sealed and built over. Yet rumour had it that the
    > hunger persisted in anyone who spoke their accursed language or
    > read their texts, which were systematically destroyed.

-   The entity can possess you if you read its words and understand
    > them. Its presence can also emanate a short distance from the
    > objects in which its essence is trapped.

-   The practice of cannibalism creates a bridge to the entity and
    > allows it to manifest itself and imprint itself on the cannibals.

## The Dudley Barrow

-   A tablet in a script similar to that found in the City of the Dead
    > was found in a barrow near Dudley which was disturbed by early
    > surface coal mining. The script was badly damaged, yet
    > translations in Old English and Latin were better preserved. The
    > tablet was found by locals who found themselves being slowly but
    > surely transformed. They face a daily increasing lust for flesh
    > which can only be temporarily sated through consumption of pork
    > products. Eventually they will be overcome with the desire to
    > consume their fellow men.

-   The great engineer Recalcitrance Emmett, secretly one of their
    > number, seeks a solution. To begin with he settles on the idea of
    > limitless pork. He offers to build a factory for Stjohn at a
    > knockdown price...

## The Statue

The statue depicts a man and a woman with the heads of bigs, bearing a
chalice from either side. Stjohn keeps it in the dining room in pride of
place, it being a gift from Miriam. Other residents of the house hate
it; they swear they feel a strange uneasiness around it - but that could
be due to what happened with Miriam... Some say that since it appeared
in the dining room, meat would disappear from their plates when they
weren't looking ... and that everything now tastes like pork. Stjohn
swears this is simply because the cook refuses to cook anything else, it
being in such plentiful supply.

The statue is the key which was used to lock the Entity in its pocket
dimension, fashioned by the pig cult of Cairo shortly before their
demise. It was to be their salvation, yet they only managed a single
turn of the lock, leaving the Entity partially trapped. With enough
sacrifice, the lock could be fully closed -- or fully opened. The
presence of the Entity emanates from the key - wherever the key goes,
the door is present too.

When blood is poured into the chalice, it vanishes, consumed by the
Entity. With enough blood, the Entity can be made sluggish and the key
can be turned. Yet feeding the Entity is incredibly dangerous; it is
momentarily strengthened, and complex rituals are needed to keep it in
check. The tunnels under Cairo followed this design - as does the
Factory.

# Characters

## Agatha Crane

## Wilbur Crane

## Hercule Poirot

## Mrs Lemon

## Inspector Japp

## Stjohn Cavendish

Stjohn thinks he has seen the ghost of Miriam haunting the house at
night. Locks have been found smashed, but nothing taken. The police
found no other evidence of burglary. He doesn't know what to believe,
but fears for his safety - could it be the families of the servants sent
to the gallows exacting their revenge? He has therefore sent for the
best detective and the best paranormal investigator to find out.

## Miriam Cavendish

In 1924, Miriam Cavendish returned from an archaeological expedition
beneath the City of the Dead in Cairo, Egypt. The dig had found an
extensive network of subterranean tunnels, deeper and more ancient than
the Islamic necropolis above. Among the artifacts recovered, some of the
most fascinating were the reliefs of pigs and pig-headed people -
previously the pig was not thought to be held in such reverence by the
ancient Egyptians. More curious still, several human skeletons appeared
to have been combined in mummification with those of pigs. Miriam
brought back with her a small statue along with several stone tablets
covered in indecipherable text.

Miriam\'s dig was funded by the new American University at Cairo, which
was seeking to raise it\'s profile by making an archeological discovery.
The initial discovery was made when a tomb floor collapsed in the city
of the dead, revealing a much older network of tunnels which had been
bricked up some time around 600AD. Some, particularly a group of
scholars from al-azhar university, were not keen on a dig going ahead,
argueing that the tunnels should remain sealed. But modernisers won out
and the exploration went ahead.

### Return to Egypt

Miriam presented Stjohn with the statue as a gift, and he proudly
displayed it in the dining room, where it sits to this day. She obsessed
over the stone tablets, travelling back and forth to the dig at Cairo,
and consulting experts in obscure and dead languages. When a later
tablet was discovered, containing text in both the mysterious script and
Arabic, she at last appeared to be making progress.

### Descent into Madness

Those around her became alarmed by her behaviour; she was becoming more
and more obsessive and withdrawn. She began to refuse vegetables and
would eat only meat. One night, Miriam killed and butchered a
maidservant with the aid of two other servants - who later claimed to
have no memory of the incident (having been mesmerised by Miriam.) They
fed the meat into the meat grinding apparatus of the newly opened
factory, making pies from the resulting mince and consuming them. Having
done this, they returned to their beds covered in gore. The human
remains were quickly discovered by factory workers and the perpetrators,
including Miriam, were arrested and hanged, the evidence against them
all being incontrovertible.

The families of the victim and of the two accomplices blame the
Cavendishes and their accursed works for what happened - the works was
never popular owing to the commercial threat it posed to traditional pie
making. And the workers are from out of town and keep to themselves.

### In Hiding

Miriam is not dead and actually faked her death: she mesmerised the
guards at the prison and took the place of the executioner. He lived
alone, and as far as anyone was concerned he was still there going about
his business. Miriam started a fire in the morgue where 'her' body was
stored, and so nobody was able to identify her subsequently. As the
executioner, she had a steady supply of human remains on which to feed,
and additionally stalked the city of Leicester at night via the sewers.

### Return

Shortly before the game begins a guard is reported missing - this is
because Miriam has returned to the Cavendish estate to perform the
ritual to free the Entity. She is now completely mad and wants revenge
on Stjohn for reporting her to the authorities.

She is hiding out in the tunnels beneath the factory. A couple of
workers have gone missing - she has killed them and is eating them.

She wants her notes from her study, which is why she has been breaking
into the house. Eventually, she will find that what she needs is the
idol, in order to release the Hunger from its prison. But Recalcitrance
will already have stolen it!

## Geoffery 'Jeffers' Butler

Has his fingers in the till -

## Gertrude White

## Stjohn Cavendish Jnr

## Anne Cavendish

## Reginald Cavendish

## Emily Cavendish

## Barry Lovegood

## Recalcitrance Emmett

Recalcitrance offered to build a pork works for Stjohn at a knockdown
price, and brings with him those of his people worst affected by the
Hunger, so as to look after them.

He has followed Miriam's recent career with interest, and combs over it
for hints of the rituals they used to subdue the entity - recognising
that the ancient Egyptians were affected by the same Hunger as his
fellows. The Factory is constructed as a great ritual device, following
the pattern of the site at Cairo.

He warned Miriam anonymously not to publish the text of the tablet but
this spurred her on - she took it to be a deception from a rival.

He has seen the tablet in the Dudley Barrow, being a scion of the pork
cult there - but his people know by now not to read it. Since it is
damaged, it is also less dangerous than the Cairo tablet.

Recalcitrance is running the factory as part of a ritual to contain the
hunger, and wants to seal it away forever. He has made copies of
Miriam's notes, and knows he needs the idol to complete the ritual.

His workers live in a nearby village called 'Domesday'. The village
predates the works but its population has been doubled by the influx of
workers. They live in a complex of barracks buildings reminiscent of a
boarding house, and they are treated with some distrust by the locals.
Their standard of living is spartan and their pay is low yet they are
curiously loyal to Recalcitrance. They are directly employed by his
company, the Emmett Works Co., which was contracted to build and run the
factory. This arrangement results in a lot of value for money for
Stjohn, so Recalcitrance's eccentricities are tolerated.

# Locations

## Oxford

Agatha and Wilbur are staying in one of the colleges at Oxford
university.

## The Factory

The factory is built in the Egyptian Revival art deco style. It was
built on the former site of a chapel on the Cavendish Estate, and has
its own shuttle line to the railway station.

The factory was designed and built by the Emmett Works Co. on behalf of
Stjohn Cavendish, who wanted to consolidate his presence in the pork pie
industry. Animals and materials are delivered by train; the animals are
slaughtered on site and then processed immediately into pies and pork
products.

## The House

## The Tunnels

## The Deep Tunnels

## Domesday

## Melton Mowbray

## Melton Mowbray Police Station

## The Prison

# Plot

## Oxford, Morning, 22nd December, 1933

## Train to Leicester, Morning, 23rd December, 1933

## Cavendish Works, Afternoon, 23rd December, 1933

## Cavendish House, Afternoon-Evening, 23rd December, 1933

Jeffers conveys you to the Cavendish House, which is a large Georgian
manor house. Dinner will be served at 7pm. Where has Wilbur got to?
Poirot goes off to his room.

Agatha can go to her room and unpack her stuff and talk to Wilbur. She
might sneakily have a look round or make preparations, but she does not
have long.

### Dinner

At 7pm the dinner gong sounds; everyone should proceed to the dining
room.

Place all the family and guests in the dining room. Recalcitrance is
present for this - but Barry is hiding in Emily's room. Agatha and
Poirot can ask questions over dinner, and characters will chime in with
conversation points pertinent to themselves.

Eventually, somebody notices that Stjohn's prize statue is missing! He
is furious, and after much kerfuffle requests Agatha and Poirot search
the house. Someone e.g. Junior remarks that everyone hated that damned
thing anyway. \[Recalcitrance has stolen it and hidden it in his
apartment, which he did via the tunnels.\]

Can search the house and interview suspects

#### Points of interest

-   Miriam's study. Locked. Where is the key?

    -   In Stjohn's room, in the side table drawer.

-   Talk to staff

-   Talk to family

-   Barry is hiding in Emily's room.

-   Entrance to the tunnels in the basement \[VERY hard to find\].

-   Recalcitrance stays with Stjohn in the drawing room.

### Night

After the search is complete, everyone goes to bed. At midnight, you are
awoken by a bloodcurdling scream!

The scream came from Stjohn's room. You should probably investigate! He
comes running out, half dressed, shouting 'Miriam!'. When he calms down,
he explains he awoke in a state of paralysis and saw Miriam standing
over him, her face angry and deathly pale. He managed to scream, at
which point she vanished. There is no trace of a presence anywhere - but
Miriam's office has been ransacked! Nothing has actually been taken
though.

Junior suspects the locals.

Reginald is hysterical and pours himself a large drink.

Emily thinks it was all in his head.

You should probably check the doors etc and then return to bed. Perhaps
it was all in his head?

## Morning, 24th December, 1933

Agatha can decide what to investigate and where to go:

-   The locals in the village

-   The workers at Domesday and the Factory

-   The Prison where Miriam was held and executed

-   Interview the family about last night

That evening at dinner, there are some suspicious absences.... Emmett is
at work too.

## Cavendish House, Midnight, 23rd December 1933

The murder!

You are again awoken by a scream. (Assuming you went to bed - if you lay
in wait, then perhaps you were mesmerised by Miriam, or you heard the
scream from elsewhere.)

This time the scream is cut short by a sickening gurgle and a loud
crash, a bestial shriek, animalistic snarling, and the sounds of
frenetic violence being done. The noises come from the foyer.

In the foyer is Stjohn's mangled body. There is blood everywhere. On the
walls there is blood. On the ceiling, blood. His head has been pulled
from his body and the rest of him has been torn to pieces. He is covered
in blood. On examination you can see that great bloody chunks seemingly
have been bitten from him. On [close]{.underline} examination (a good
roll) you can see that this was the work of a human jaw but with canine
teeth. Bloody footprints lead away from the body towards the wine
cellar. Elsewhere in the house, Miriam's study has again been ransacked.
Notebooks are scattered prominently - unless you found them before.

On the floor of the wine cellar is the silver key. This unlocks the
secret door to the tunnels - which you might have located already via a
good spot hidden roll, or you might need to search for it. This time
there is a trail of blood leading to a wall so it should be easier to
find.

If you follow, you can enter the tunnels. The tunnels run from the house
to the factory. The silver keys works at this end too. The deep tunnels
are behind another secret door down there; its unlikely you will find it
without a good light source and time to look around. This is where
Miriam has dug her burrow.

If you follow the tunnel you will end up in the factory, which throws
some suspicion on Emmett! This is how he stole the statue. You might
want to interrogate him and search his apartment. Someone should have
called the police - you might do this with Inspector Japp if you wait
long enough.

In Emmett's apartment, you might find

-   The Statue (well-hidden, in a safe behind a painting)

-   Copies of Miriam's notes, in his desk

-   Copies of correspondence with Miriam where he sought to warn her off

-   His diary, in code, hidden with the statue

He does *not* yet know about Miriam - he believes the Hunger is what
caused her to go mad, but he doesn't know she survived. The evidence
against him is probably strong enough for Japp to arrest him and take
the statue as evidence.

## Cavendish House, Morning, 25th December 1933

Christmas! Walter and Agatha exchange gifts. Perhaps she bought one for
Poirot too!

What do you do next?\
\
Tonight Miriam will assault the police station to get the statue (or
Emmett's apartment if it is still there.)
